Linux Administration Tool
Version 1.5
{ $Id: AdminTool.readme,v 1.3 1997/11/04 23:32:04 Rob Exp Rob $ }

Usage/Installation:
This only requires Perl 5.001 or greater to be installed and for the lsa file
to be set to executable.  Copy the lsa file to either /usr/local/bin or 
/usr/bin and type lsa to run the program.  If you are not allowed to execute
lsa then type chmod +x lsa and your problems should be solved.  The lsa file
is in Perl source and is commented to help with any adjustments you wish to
make.

Changes to the source:
Although you are free to change the source you must note all changes made to
the source and who made the changes if the file is distributed for other than
personal use.  If you would like to see some extra functionality added or
add some functionality that you feel would be an asset to the program then
e-mail me at leftie@ibm.net so I can add it in to the general distribution.
All contributors will be acknowledged along with their contributions. 

Overview:
This administration tool was written in Perl 5.001 for linux users, and
administrators.  This is freeware and is aimed at easing the tasks of adding
users, removing users, administering groups and other basic administration
tasks.  Following is a list of the basic functions.  Most of these functions
require the user to be root.

There are two different main menus.  One is for root users and the other is
for non-root users.  The menu for non-root users only allows the following
functions: edit project, edit plan, List users, list groups, user information.

List Users:
This lists all of the users in the passwd file.  The login and user names are
listed and allows the user to selct a login to display more information about.
This function can be used by anyone unless the standard passwd file rights
have been altered.

List Groups:
This lists all group names and ids.  This is another function that can be used
by normal users.

List Group Members:
This lists the groups and asks the user to select a group.  It lists all
members in the group and then searches the passwd file to find any users that
are members of the group.

Add a User:
This just uses the standard adduser program

Add a Group:
This asks the user to enter information about a group and then adds it to the
group file.

Add Members to a Group:
You can add groups or users.  No validation checks are made so be careful.

Edit User Info:
Allows you to edit a user's name, home directory, shell, login name, user id or
group.  You will first need to select a current user.

Remove User:
Deletes a user from the passwd file and the shadow file if one exists.  Any
files or directories that are owned by the user are chowned to a new user that
you can select.

Remove Group:
Deletes a group from the group file and chgrps all of the group's files to a
new group that you can select.

Other Notes:
Many functions create a backup of the passwd, shadow, and/or group files.  The
backup is called passwd.bak,shadow.bak or group.bak and will be placed in the
/etc directory.  Temporary files passwd.new, shadow.new and group.new will also
be placed in the /etc directory.  If you have problems saving changes that have
been made you can check the .new files to see the changes.
The remove group/user functions build a list of all files that are chgrp or
chown'ed this list is stored as temp.lst in the /tmp directory.

This version does work with password shadow files and has only been tested in
the final release version with Linux-Slakware 2.0.29.  It should work fine with
other versions of Linux, but always make sure you back up your files before
using a program like this.

Future:
Some future enhancements that are planned include:
*A graphical interface as well as the text interface.
*An environmental editor for common shells.
*The ability to edit shadow file attributes.
*Default user files and values.

Rob Broadhead
Leftie@ibm.net
5-30-1997
